Improve feature flag documentation with feature flag label guidance (#9794)
wso2/identity-apps: docs/FEATURE_FLAGS.md

# Using Feature Flags

> Feature flags enable conditionally enabling and labelling features in Identity Server console dynamically. This approach allows you to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feature flags enable conditionally enabling and labelling features in Identity Server console dynamically, allowing developers to 
```

`FeatureFlagLabel` currently supports the following flag values:

- `NEW`
- `BETA`
- `COMING_SOON`
- `PREVIEW`

Example:

```tsx
import FeatureFlagLabel from "@wso2is/admin.feature-gate.v1/components/feature-flag-label";
import { FeatureFlagsInterface } from "@wso2is/core/models";

const App = () => {
  const organizationFeatureFlags: FeatureFlagsInterface[] = useSelector(
    (state: AppState) => state.config.ui.features?.organizations?.featureFlags
  );
  
  return (
    <Button>
      Export Organizations
      <FeatureFlagLabel
        featureFlags={ organizationFeatureFlags }
        featureKey="organizations.exportButton"
        type="chip"
      />
    </Button>
  );
};

export default App;
```

You can use:

- `type="chip"` to render the label as a chip.
  <br><br><img width="236" height="69" alt="chip" src="assets/images/feature-flags/chip-feature-flag-label.png" /><br>

- `type="ribbon"` to render the label as a ribbon.
  <br><br><img width="465" height="223" alt="ribbon" src="assets/images/feature-flags/ribbon-feature-flag-label.png" /><br>

## Using Nested Features (sub-features)

> Features have scopes, which allow them to change their behaviour based on the permissions a user has. Sub-features can be used to create features that have a subset relationship to a parent feature. They can be configured to have more specialized or different scopes from their parent. The below example will show how to use sub-features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sub-features allow you to model hierarchical relationships, where a child feature represents a more specific or restricted version of a parent feature. These sub-features can have their own scopes, enabling finer-grained or customized behavior compared to the parent. The following example demonstrates how to work with sub-features.

```

            }
        ],
        "scopes": {
            "create": [
                "internal_role_mgt_create"
            ],
            "delete": [
                "internal_role_mgt_delete"
            ],
            "feature": [
                "console:roles"
            ],
            "read": [
                "internal_application_mgt_view",
                "internal_group_mgt_view",
                "internal_idp_view",
                "internal_role_mgt_view",
                "internal_user_mgt_list",
                "internal_user_mgt_view",
                "internal_userstore_view"
            ],
            "update": [
                "internal_role_mgt_update"
            ]
          },
          "subFeatures": {
            // other sub-features
            "rolePermissionAssignments": {
                "disabledFeatures": [],
                "enabled": true,
                "featureFlags": [],
                "scopes": {
                    "update": [
                        "internal_role_mgt_permissions_update",
                        "internal_role_mgt_update"
                    ]
                }
            }
          }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Note that the permission `internal_role_mgt_permissions_update` is not present in the parent feature scope meaning that the sub-feature has more specific permission requirements distinct from its parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the permission `internal_role_mgt_permissions_update` is not included in the parent feature’s scope. This highlights that the sub-feature defines its own, more specific permission requirements, separate from those of the parent feature.

```

                "console:roles"
            ],
            "read": [
                "internal_application_mgt_view",
                "internal_group_mgt_view",
                "internal_idp_view",
                "internal_role_mgt_view",
                "internal_user_mgt_list",
                "internal_user_mgt_view",
                "internal_userstore_view"
            ],
            "update": [
                "internal_role_mgt_update"
            ]
          },
          "subFeatures": {
            // other sub-features
            "rolePermissionAssignments": {
                "disabledFeatures": [],
                "enabled": true,
                "featureFlags": [],
                "scopes": {
                    "update": [
                        "internal_role_mgt_permissions_update",
                        "internal_role_mgt_update"
                    ]
                }
            }
          }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Note that the permission `internal_role_mgt_permissions_update` is not included in the parent feature’s scope. This highlights that the sub-feature defines its own, more specific permission requirements, separate from those of the parent feature.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. Read the scopes of the sub feature in your component and implement the conditional.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```tsx
const App = () => {
    const userRolesFeatureConfig: FeatureAccessConfigInterface = useSelector(
        (state: AppState) => state?.config?.ui?.features?.userRoles
    );

    const hasRolePermissionUpdatePermission: boolean = useRequiredScopes(
        userRolesFeatureConfig?.subFeatures?.rolePermissionAssignments?.scopes?.update
    );

    return (
        hasRolePermissionUpdatePermission && (
            <Button>
                Update
            </Button>
          )
    );
};

export default App;
```

In the above example, if the user does not have the required scopes, the button is not rendered.

> OR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Use `Show` to display or hide elements based on permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the `Show` component to display or hide elements based on permissions.
```

In the above example, the "filter by metadata attribute" input is conditionally rendered based on the defined feature flag. If
`organizations.filterByMetadataAttributes` is included in the `disabledFeatures` array, the section will not be displayed.

## Denoting Feature Status Using Feature Labels

In addition to conditionally displaying UI components, it is also possible to specify the feature status of UI components by attaching labels such as `New`, `Beta`, or `Coming Soon`.

However, unlike `disabledFeatures`, adding these configurations do not automatically disable the feature status chips. Instead, your component can be configured to read the feature status and decide how to display it.

1. Identify the High-Level Feature

> First, identify the parent feature that owns the UI element. For example, assume we want to show the feature status label for a new "Export Organization Settings" button on the organizations page. In this case, the high-level feature is `organizations`.

Reviewer: No need.

2. Add a Feature Flag Entry to the Deployment Config

Add a new entry to the `featureFlags` array in the relevant feature config.

> 

Reviewer: Shall we add the deployment config example back? feels like this subsection looks incomplete without that.

> 

Author: Okay

3. Read the scopes of the sub feature in your component and implement the conditional.

```tsx
const App = () => {
    const userRolesFeatureConfig: FeatureAccessConfigInterface = useSelector(
        (state: AppState) => state?.config?.ui?.features?.userRoles
    );

    const hasRolePermissionUpdatePermission: boolean = useRequiredScopes(
        userRolesFeatureConfig?.subFeatures?.rolePermissionAssignments?.scopes?.update
    );

    return (
        hasRolePermissionUpdatePermission && (
            <Button>
                Update
            </Button>
          )
    );
};

export default App;
```

In the above example, if the user does not have the required scopes, the button is not rendered.

 - With permissions:
<br><img width="600" alt="subfeature-example-with-permissions" src="assets/images/feature-flags/subfeature-example-with-permissions.png" /><br>

 - Without permissions:
<br><img width="600" alt="subfeature-example-without-permissions" src="assets/images/feature-flags/subfeature-example-without-permissions.png" /><br>

> Notice that the `Update` button did not render because the user did not have sufficient permissions.

Reviewer: Let's keep the docs concise as much as possible by removing non essential details.

```suggestion
```

OR

> 4. Use `Show` to display or hide elements based on permissions

Reviewer: Let's keep this example as is.

In the above example, the "filter by metadata attribute" input is conditionally rendered based on the defined feature flag. If
`organizations.filterByMetadataAttributes` is included in the `disabledFeatures` array, the section will not be displayed.

## Denoting Feature Status Using Feature Labels

In addition to conditionally displaying UI components, it is also possible to specify the feature status of UI components by attaching labels such as `New`, `Beta`, or `Coming Soon`.

However, unlike `disabledFeatures`, adding these configurations do not automatically disable the feature status chips. Instead, your component can be configured to read the feature status and decide how to display it.

1. Identify the High-Level Feature

First, identify the parent feature that owns the UI element. For example, assume we want to show the feature status label for a new "Export Organization Settings" button on the organizations page. In this case, the high-level feature is `organizations`.

2. Add a Feature Flag Entry to the Deployment Config

Add a new entry to the `featureFlags` array in the relevant feature config.

> Updated deployment.config.json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can also render the status label as a reusable UI element instead of directly modifying the text by using the `FeatureFlagLabel` component. This component reads the flag and renders it as a `chip` or a `ribbon`.

`FeatureFlagLabel` currently supports the following flag values:

- `NEW`
- `BETA`
- `EXPERIMENTAL`
- `PREMIUM`
- `COMING_SOON`
- `PREVIEW`

Example:

```tsx
import Button from "@oxygen-ui/react/Button";
import FeatureFlagLabel from "@wso2is/admin.feature-gate.v1/components/feature-flag-label";

const App = () => {
  const userFeatureFlags: FeatureFlagsInterface[] = useSelector(
    (state: AppState) => state.config.ui.features?.users?.featureFlags
  );
  
  return (
    <Button>
      Export Users
      <FeatureFlagLabel
        featureFlags={ userFeatureFlags }
        featureKey="users.exportButton"
        type="chip"
      />
    </Button>
  );
};

export default App;
```

You can use:

- `type="chip"` to render the label as a chip.
- `type="ribbon"` to render the label as a ribbon.

This is the recommended approach when you want a consistent UI element for labels such as `Preview`, `New`, or `Beta` across the application.

## Conclusion

> Using feature flags allows you to manage feature deployment more flexibly and safely. By following the steps outlined in this guide, you can define feature flags, manage them in your configuration, use them to conditionally enable or disable features, and use feature labels to control UI behaviour and appearance in your application dynamically.

Reviewer: Let's remove the conclusion section altogether. It feels odd to have a conclusion section in a dev doc :D
